1. Cancers (Basel). 2019 Jul 24;11(8):1048. doi: 10.3390/cancers11081048.

Immunotherapies for the Treatment of Uveal Melanoma-History and Future.

Schank TE(1)(2), Hassel JC(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital Heidelberg, 69120 Heidelberg, 
Germany. Timo.Schank@med.uni-heidelberg.de.
(2)National Center for Tumor Diseases, University Hospital Heidelberg, 69120 
Heidelberg, Germany. Timo.Schank@med.uni-heidelberg.de.
(3)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital Heidelberg, 69120 Heidelberg, 
Germany. Jessica.Hassel@med.uni-heidelberg.de.
(4)National Center for Tumor Diseases, University Hospital Heidelberg, 69120 
Heidelberg, Germany. Jessica.Hassel@med.uni-heidelberg.de.

BACKGROUND: Uveal melanoma is the most common primary intraocular malignancy 
among adults. It is, nevertheless, a rare disease, with an incidence of 
approximately one case per 100,000 individuals per year in Europe. Approximately 
half of tumors will eventually metastasize, and the liver is the organ usually 
affected. No standard-of-care treatment exists for metastasized uveal melanoma. 
Chemotherapies or liver-directed treatments do not usually result in long-term 
tumor control. Immunotherapies are currently the most promising therapy option 
available.
METHODS: We reviewed both relevant recent literature on PubMed concerning the 
treatment of uveal melanoma with immunotherapies, and currently investigated 
drugs on ClinicalTrials.gov. Our own experiences with immune checkpoint blockers 
are included in a case series of 20 patients.
RESULTS: Because few clinical trials have been conducted for metastasized uveal 
melanoma, no definitive treatment strategy exists for this rare disease. The 
outcomes of most immunotherapies are poor, especially compared with cutaneous 
melanoma. However, encouraging results have been found for some very recently 
investigated agents such as the bispecific tebentafusp, for which a remarkably 
increased one-year overall survival rate, and similarly increased disease 
control rate, were observed in early phase studies.
CONCLUSIONS: The treatment of metastatic uveal melanoma remains challenging, and 
almost all patients still die from the disease. Long-term responses might be 
achievable by means of new immunological strategies. Patients should therefore 
be referred to large medical centers where they can take part in controlled 
clinical studies.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers11081048
PMCID: PMC6721437
PMID: 31344957

Conflict of interest statement: JCH has had a paid consulting role with Merck 
and Amgen, has received honoraria from Bristol-Myers Squibb, Merck, Novartis, 
Roche and Pfizer and received research funding from BMS.
