1. Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2023 Feb;20(2):99-115. doi: 10.1038/s41571-022-00714-1.
Epub  2023 Jan 4.

Advances in the clinical management of uveal melanoma.

Carvajal RD(1), Sacco JJ(2), Jager MJ(3), Eschelman DJ(4), Olofsson Bagge R(5), 
Harbour JW(6), Chieng ND(7), Patel SP(8), Joshua AM(9)(10), Piperno-Neumann 
S(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, 
NY, USA. carvajalr@columbia.edu.
(2)Institute of Systems, Molecular and Integrative Biology, University of 
Liverpool, Liverpool, UK.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Radiology, Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(5)Department of Surgery, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(6)Department of Ophthalmology and Simmons Comprehensive Cancer Center, UT 
Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX, USA.
(7)Medical Imaging Services, Royal North Shore Hospital, St Leonards, New South 
Wales, Australia.
(8)Department of Melanoma Medical Oncology, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, 
TX, USA.
(9)Department of Medical Oncology, Kinghorn Cancer Centre, St Vincent's Hospital 
Sydney and Garvan Institute of Medical Research, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(10)School of Clinical Medicine, UNSW Medicine & Health, St Vincent's Healthcare 
Clinical Campus, Faculty of Medicine and Health, UNSW, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(11)Department of Medical Oncology, Institut Curie, Paris, France.

Melanomas arising in the uveal tract of the eye are a rare form of the disease 
with a biology and clinical phenotype distinct from their more common cutaneous 
counterparts. Treatment of primary uveal melanoma with radiotherapy, enucleation 
or other modalities achieves local control in more than 90% of patients, 
although 40% or more ultimately develop distant metastases, most commonly in the 
liver. Until January 2022, no systemic therapy had received regulatory approval 
for patients with metastatic uveal melanoma, and these patients have 
historically had a dismal prognosis owing to the limited efficacy of the 
available treatments. A series of seminal studies over the past two decades have 
identified highly prevalent early, tumour-initiating oncogenic genomic 
aberrations, later recurring prognostic alterations and immunological features 
that characterize uveal melanoma. These advances have driven the development of 
a number of novel emerging treatments, including tebentafusp, the first systemic 
therapy to achieve regulatory approval for this disease. In this Review, our 
multidisciplinary and international group of authors summarize the biology of 
uveal melanoma, management of primary disease and surveillance strategies to 
detect recurrent disease, and then focus on the current standard and emerging 
regional and systemic treatment approaches for metastatic uveal melanoma.

© 2023. Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41571-022-00714-1
PMID: 36600005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
