1. Front Oncol. 2023 May 31;13:1161759. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2023.1161759.
eCollection  2023.

Immunotherapy for ocular melanoma: a bibliometric and visualization analysis 
from 1991 to 2022.

Tan Y(1), Lu Y(1), Chen S(2), Zou C(1)(3)(4), Qin B(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Shenzhen Aier Eye Hospital, Aier Eye Hospital, Jinan University, Shenzhen, 
China.
(2)Shenzhen Eye Hospital, Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Affiliated 
Hospital of Jinan University, Shenzhen, China.
(3)Shenzhen Aier Ophthalmic Technology Institute, Shenzhen, China.
(4)School of Life and Health Sciences, The Chinese University of Kong Hong, 
Shenzhen, Guangdong, China.

BACKGROUND: In recent years, new therapeutic options to overcome the mechanisms 
of tumor immune suppression be effective in the treatment of cutaneous melanoma. 
These approaches have also been applied in ocular melanoma. The aim of this 
study is to present the current status and research hotspots of immunotherapy 
for ocular melanoma from a bibliometric perspective and to explore the field of 
immunotherapy for malignant ocular melanoma research.
METHODS: In this study, the Web of Science Core Collection database (WoSCC) and 
Pubmed were selected to search the literature related to immunotherapy of ocular 
melanoma. Using VOSviewer, CiteSpace, the R package "bibliometrix," and the 
bibliometric online platform through the construction and visualization of 
bibliometric networks, the country/region, institution, journal, author, and 
keywords were analyzed to predict the most recent trends in research pertaining 
to ocular melanoma and immunotherapy.
RESULTS: A total of 401 papers and 144 reviews related to immunotherapy of 
ocular melanoma were included. The United States is the main driver of research 
in the field, ranking first in terms of the number of publications, total 
citations, and H-index. The UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS SYSTEM is the most active 
institution, contributing the most papers. Jager, Martine is the most prolific 
author, and Carvajal, Richard is the most frequently cited author. CANCERS is 
the most published journal in the field and J CLIN ONCOL is the most cited 
journal. In addition to ocular melanoma and immunotherapy, the most popular 
keywords were "uveal melanoma" and "targeted therapy". According to keyword 
co-occurrence and burst analysis, uveal melanoma, immunotherapy, melanoma, 
metastases, bap1, tebentafusp, bioinformatics, conjunctival melanoma, immune 
checkpoint inhibitors, ipilimumab, pembrolizumab, and other research topics 
appear to be at the forefront of this field's research and have the potential to 
remain a hot research topic in the future.
CONCLUSION: This is the first bibliometric study in the last 30 years to 
comprehensively map the knowledge structure and trends in the field of research 
related to ocular melanoma and immunotherapy. The results comprehensively 
summarize and identify research frontiers for scholars studying immunotherapy 
associated with ocular melanoma.

Copyright © 2023 Tan, Lu, Chen, Zou and Qin.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2023.1161759
PMCID: PMC10265996
PMID: 37324010

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.
