1. Cancer Treat Rev. 2023 Sep;119:102599. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2023.102599. Epub 
2023 Jul 7.

Uveal melanoma: In the era of new treatments.

Wespiser M(1), Neidhardt E(2), Negrier S(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, University Hospital of Besançon, Besançon, 
France. Electronic address: mwespiser@chu-besancon.fr.
(2)Centre Léon Bérard, University of Lyon, Lyon, France. Electronic address: 
EveMarie.neidhardt@lyon.unicancer.fr.
(3)Centre Léon Bérard, University of Lyon, Lyon, France. Electronic address: 
sylvie.negrier@lyon.unicancer.fr.

Uveal melanoma (UM), also known as choroidal melanoma, is the leading adult 
intraocular tumor worldwide, affecting mainly Caucasian populations. The last 
decade has seen an improvement in the outcome of these tumors at the localized 
stage, in favor of conservative treatment of the eye, notably with new 
radioactive treatment techniques. Despite optimal management, half of the 
patients will become metastatic, with liver involvement in 90% of cases. The 
prognosis is pejorative and considers clinical, tumor anatomy, histological and 
molecular parameters. This review provides a broad overview of the different 
therapeutic options for the management of localized or metastatic UM disease, 
with recently updated data. Despite the known limited efficacy of chemotherapy 
and immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI), we discuss the first results of combined 
immunotherapies, the arrival of a new first-in-class immunomodulatory treatment 
Tebentafusp, in HLA-A*02:01 patients, avenues of research into targeted 
anti-tyrosine kinase therapies, and the growing use of ctDNA to guide treatment 
prescription.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2023.102599
PMID: 37473516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: [Mylène Wespiser: declares no 
conflicts of interest. Eve Marie Neidhardt: declares conflicts of interest with 
Pierre Fabre and Novartis. Sylvie Negrier: declares conflicts of interest with 
Pfizer, Ipsen, BMS, MDS, Eisaï.].
