1. J Dtsch Dermatol Ges. 2023 Oct 30. doi: 10.1111/ddg.15225. Online ahead of 
print.

Identifying biomarkers and novel therapeutic targets in uveal melanoma.

Wessely A(1)(2)(3), Koch EAT(1)(2)(3), Vera J(1)(2)(3), Berking C(1)(2)(3), 
Heppt MV(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Uniklinikum Erlangen, 
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg (FAU), Erlangen, Germany.
(2)Comprehensive Cancer Center Erlangen-European Metropolitan Area of Nürnberg 
(CCC ER-EMN), Erlangen, Germany.
(3)Deutsches Zentrum für Immuntherapie (DZI), Uniklinikum Erlangen, 
Friedrich-Alexander-University Erlangen-Nürnberg (FAU), Erlangen, Germany.

Uveal melanoma (UM) is an orphan cancer despite being the most common eye tumor 
in adults. Patients often present to skin cancer centers for treatment of 
metastatic disease although there are significant genetic, biological, and 
clinical differences from cutaneous melanoma. The treatments most commonly used 
for metastatic UM are tebentafusp and combined immune checkpoint blockade, both 
of which yield low response rates and may be accompanied by high treatment costs 
and significant immune-related toxicities. Thus, it is of paramount importance 
to identify biomarkers and clinical profiles predictive of treatment response 
and to find novel therapeutic targets. The use of immune checkpoint blockade 
showed more favorable outcomes in patients with extrahepatic disease and normal 
levels of serum lactate dehydrogenase in a panel of retrospective studies, 
making its use more reasonable in this subgroup. To identify novel drug targets, 
we will analyze the expression and relevance of neural crest transcription 
factors in patient bio-specimens using next-generation nanopore sequencing. 
Computer algorithms and network-based analysis will facilitate the 
identification of druggable targets which will subsequently be validated in 
patient-derived short-term cell cultures. This approach will help to find novel 
and personalized treatments for UM.

© 2023 The Authors. Journal der Deutschen Dermatologischen Gesellschaft 
published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Deutsche Dermatologische 
Gesellschaft.

DOI: 10.1111/ddg.15225
PMID: 37902386
